hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with the potato pancakes one of my
favorite potato preparations is
something i just don't make often enough
super easy to make take two pounds
actually i had two and a quarter two
pounds of russet potatoes peel them and
then grate them with a cheese grater
into a bowl of very cold water and I'm
also gonna grate in half an onion into
the same bowl and by the way you've
never cried until you've created onion
it's good it's good cry all right once
that's done I'm gonna add some more
water fill it up a little more and these
are just gonna sit in the cold water for
about 20-30 minutes you don't need to
rinse it just let me sit there in the
meantime take a couple eggs some flour
black pepper little pinch of cayenne
salt of course and we're gonna whisk
that up until very smooth and then set
that aside when our potatoes are ready
drain them rinse them put them in a
colander and squeeze squeeze squeeze
squeeze all the water must be squeezed
out so I squeeze it a fistful at a time
and then I press it again with some
paper towel make sure all the waters out
of your potatoes it's the only way to
screw this up is to have wet potatoes
once the potatoes are as dry as humanly
possible add them to a bowl mix in your
egg mixture with a spatula and that is a
potato pancake mixture ready to fry it's
an incredibly easy recipe I told you I'm
gonna cover that while I make these
because you don't want any air to get to
the potatoes if possible because they do
oxidize this is not something you could
store put away and you know it's gonna
be good the next day you're gonna want
to make this stuff fresh all right now
to fry these we're gonna use a
heavy-duty skillet with a good amount of
oil you they say a quarter-inch of oil I
don't know if you can quite need that
much on the bottom but you need enough
oil to come up the side at least halfway
up the pancake if you want a nice crispy
cake this one I'm just doing a little
test to taste for salt we're gonna heat
the pan on medium-high and when it's hot
add your pancake mixture flatten it out
this one's a little smaller than the
ones you're gonna see but again I'm just
tasting for seasoning I'm gonna taste
this oh man so good and it did need a
little more seasoning so what you want
to do is you want to put your oil in the
pan
he had to medium-high when it starts to
shimmer add your potatoes flatten him
down a little bit they don't have to be
round who says they have to be round if
I've said it once I've said it a
thousand times the kitchen is no place
for a perfectionist
all right flat him down to about a half
inch cook them for about like I said
five minutes per side you've got to see
the edges get really crispy and crunchy
before you turn them five minutes on the
other side and when I flip them normally
I'll turn it down to medium because this
is raw potato you got to give it time to
cook through if you keep going on high
heat or medium high the whole way
sometimes towards the end the edges
start getting a little too Brown in the
middle isn't quite tender enough and
there you go I top mine with smoked
salmon sour cream and dill very classic
combination you can do these with apple
sauce a sour cream another even more
classic combination or just plain next
to some eggs and bacon anyway go to the
site the ingredients for the filling are
quite important so go check those out
and as always enjoy
you